Feat: Debugger and CMEK documentation (#1826)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/konnect-platform/cmek.md

---
title: Customer-Managed Encryption Keys (CMEK)
content_type: reference
layout: reference
description: 'Use Customer-Managed Encryption Keys (CMEK) in {{site.konnect_short_name}} to encrypt sensitive data using keys from your AWS Key Management Service (KMS) account.'
breadcrumbs:
  - /konnect/

products:
    - konnect-platform
tags:
  - encryption
  - security
  - compliance
works_on:

>   - konnect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - konnect
faqs:
  - q: Can I use automation to configure CMEK in {{site.konnect_short_name}}?
    a: No, CMEK can currently only be configured via the {{site.konnect_short_name}} UI. Once CMEK is configured, {{site.konnect_short_name}} data that is encrypted using CMEK will be visible from the {{site.konnect_short_name}} APIs, decK, and Terraform after decryption.
```

---

## Overview

{{site.konnect_short_name}} supports **Customer-Managed Encryption Keys (CMEK)**, allowing you to use your own symmetric key stored in **AWS Key Management Service (KMS)** to encrypt sensitive data. This feature enhances privacy, security, and regulatory compliance by enabling customer-controlled encryption.

## Benefits of CMEK

* **Regulatory compliance** with standards such as HIPAA, GDPR, and PCI-DSS
* **Exclusive decryption access** {{site.base_gateway}} cannot access unencrypted data without your key
* **Instant revocation** removing the key from AWS KMS makes encrypted data in {{site.konnect_short_name}} unreadable

## CMEK scope in {{site.konnect_short_name}}

> CMEK currently applies to:

Reviewer 2: Checking if the koko support will go live the same time as CMEK. We can update the language accordingly.

* Payloads captured through [the {{site.konnect_short_name}} Debugger](/konnect-platform/debugger/)
* Request logs stored in Debugger workflows

The steps required are: 

1. Create a **symmetric encryption key** in AWS KMS.
1. Provide the **key ARN** to {{site.konnect_short_name}} through the UI.
1. {{site.konnect_short_name}} encrypts specified data using the key during write operations.
1. Decryption occurs via AWS KMS at read time, contingent on key availability.

### User Responsibilities

* **Key rotation**: 
  * AWS KMS can rotate keys automatically if the ARN stays constant.
  * Manual rotation with a new ARN requires updating the key in {{site.konnect_short_name}}. If the key's ARN changes, data encrypted with the previous key cannot be decrypted in {{site.konnect_short_name}}
* **Key revocation**: 
  * Revoking or deleting your key in AWS KMS renders associated data permanently unreadable.
* **Performance impact**: 

>   * KMS-based decryption may introduce latency during access operations.

Reviewer 2: We could add a line - "Any costs incurred in AWS KMS"

* **Feature limitations**: 
  * Encrypted fields cannot be used in full-text search, filtering, or analytics
  * Alerting features cannot inspect encrypted content

## Managing Keys

### Key Rotation

* Rotating keys within AWS KMS (without changing the ARN) is supported automatically.
* If you change the ARN, you must update the key in {{site.konnect_short_name}} manually.

### Key Revocation

* If the AWS KMS key is revoked or deleted, encrypted data becomes inaccessible.
* {{site.konnect_short_name}} will display decryption errors when this occurs.

## API and Automation Support

> * CMEK can currently only be configured via the **{{site.konnect_short_name}} UI**.

Reviewer 3: We will be releasing the CMEK APIs `v1` GA. This also includes Terraform support. Should we mention it? cc @smritikjaggi

> ## API and Automation Support
> 
> * CMEK can currently only be configured via the **{{site.konnect_short_name}} UI**.
> 
> Once CMEK has been configured {{site.konnect_short_name}} data that is encrypted using CMEK will be visible from the {{site.konnect_short_name}} UI APIs, decK and Terraform after decryption. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I recommended moving this to a FAQ.

## Configure CMEK

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To configure CMEK, you need:
```

* A **symmetric key** in AWS KMS

> * **Org Admin** role in {{site.konnect_short_name}}

Reviewer 3: This instruction block needs to hold additional details, including the policy to apply to the KMS key and multi-region key selection with replication to Konnect regions. These settings cannot be guessed by the end users, and we must be super prescriptive. Failure to setup the KMS key precisely according to these instructions will make it impossible to link a KMS key.

See our internal docs: https://github.com/Kong/kave/blob/main/docs/byok.md

> ### Setup Workflow

Reviewer 3: For more accurate details on the setup workflow, watch this video recording from @mptap  
https://kongstrong.slack.com/archives/C07J9C9Q37U/p1751579097116979

> 1. Go to **Organization Settings > Encryption Keys** in {{site.konnect_short_name}}.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Go to **Organization > Settings > Encryption Keys** in {{site.konnect_short_name}}.
```

> 1. Click **Add Key**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Click **Link key**.
```

1. Enter the **Key ARN**, **name**, and an optional **description**.

> 1. Click **Save** to activate CMEK.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Click **Connect** to activate CMEK.
```

---
title: Customer-Managed Encryption Keys (CMEK)
content_type: reference
layout: reference

> description: 'Use Customer-Managed Encryption Keys (CMEK) in {{site.konnect_short_name}} to encrypt sensitive data using keys from your AWS Key Management Service (KMS) account.'

Reviewer 2: Should we say "to encrypt pre-determined set of sensitive data"? I want to highlight that cmek can only support a  subset of data.

breadcrumbs:
  - /konnect/

products:
    - konnect-platform
tags:
  - encryption
  - security
  - compliance
works_on:
  - konnect

> faqs:

Reviewer 2: Another FAQ that we can add is - can I bring in symmetric keys from other key manaegement services? The answer is no. CMEK only suports AWS KMS for now.

  - q: Can I use automation to configure CMEK in {{site.konnect_short_name}}?

>     a: No, CMEK can currently only be configured via the {{site.konnect_short_name}} UI. Once CMEK is configured, {{site.konnect_short_name}} data that is encrypted using CMEK will be visible from the {{site.konnect_short_name}} APIs, decK, and Terraform after decryption.

Reviewer 2: The answer to this has changed. We are releasing UI, API and Terraform together. Customers will be able to use UI, API and Terraform to configure CMEK.

---

{{site.konnect_short_name}} supports **Customer-Managed Encryption Keys (CMEK)**, allowing you to use your own symmetric key stored in **AWS Key Management Service (KMS)** to encrypt sensitive data. This feature enhances privacy, security, and regulatory compliance by enabling customer-controlled encryption.

## Benefits of CMEK

* **Regulatory compliance** with standards such as HIPAA, GDPR, and PCI-DSS
* **Exclusive decryption access** Encrypted data can't be accessed without a key.
* **Instant revocation** removing the key from AWS KMS makes encrypted data in {{site.konnect_short_name}} unreadable

## CMEK scope in {{site.konnect_short_name}}

CMEK currently applies to:

* Payloads captured through [the {{site.konnect_short_name}} Debugger](/konnect-platform/debugger/)
* Request logs stored in Debugger workflows

> To this you must 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use CMEK, you must 
```

1. [Create a **symmetric encryption key** in AWS KMS.](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/create-keys.html)
1. Provide the **key ARN** to [{{site.konnect_short_name}}](https://cloud.konghq.com/global/organization/settings/encryption-keys/)

### User responsibilities

When you configure CMEK, you are responsible for the following:

* **Key rotation**: 
  * AWS KMS takes care of key rotation automatically. 
  * Manual rotation with a new ARN requires updating the key in {{site.konnect_short_name}}. If the key's ARN changes, data encrypted with the previous key cannot be decrypted in {{site.konnect_short_name}}.
* **Key revocation**: 
  * Revoking or deleting your key in AWS KMS renders associated data permanently unreadable.
* **Performance impact**: 
  * KMS-based decryption may introduce latency during access operations.
* **Feature limitations**: 

>   * Encrypted fields cannot be used in full-text search, filtering, or analytics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * CMEK Encrypted fields cannot be used in full-text search, filtering, or analytics.
```

>   * Alerting features cannot inspect encrypted content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Alerting features cannot inspect CMEK encrypted content.
```

## Managing keys

See the following sections for information about how to manage CMEK keys.

### Key Rotation

* Rotating keys within AWS KMS (without changing the ARN) is supported automatically.
* If you change the ARN, you must update the key in {{site.konnect_short_name}} manually. 
  * Data encrypted with the previous key cannot be decrypted and will be lost.

### Key revocation

The following happens if the AWS KMS key is revoked:
* If the AWS KMS key is revoked or deleted, encrypted data becomes inaccessible.
* {{site.konnect_short_name}} will display decryption errors when this occurs.

> ## Configure CMEK

Reviewer 2: Should this section move above before User responsibility? We tell the user that they need to create a AWS KMS key and provide the ARN to Konnect, and then switch gears.

  - compliance
works_on:
  - konnect
faqs:
  - q: Can I use automation to configure CMEK in {{site.konnect_short_name}}?

>     a: Yes, customers will be able to use the {{site.konnect_short_name}} UI, API, and [Terraform](/terraform/) to configure CMEK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    a: Yes, you can use the {{site.konnect_short_name}} UI, API, and [Terraform](/terraform/) to configure CMEK.
```

  - q: Can I bring in symmetric keys from other key management services?
    a: No. CMEK currently only supports AWS Key Management Service (KMS).

---

{{site.konnect_short_name}} supports **Customer-Managed Encryption Keys (CMEK)**, allowing you to use your own symmetric key stored in **AWS Key Management Service (KMS)** to encrypt a pre-determined set of sensitive data. This feature enhances privacy, security, and regulatory compliance by enabling customer-controlled encryption.

## Benefits of CMEK

* **Regulatory compliance** with standards such as HIPAA, GDPR, and PCI-DSS
* **Exclusive decryption access** Encrypted data can't be accessed without a key.
* **Instant revocation** removing the key from AWS KMS makes encrypted data in {{site.konnect_short_name}} unreadable

## CMEK scope in {{site.konnect_short_name}}

CMEK currently applies to:

> * Payloads captured through [the {{site.konnect_short_name}} Debugger](/gateway-manager/debugger/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Payloads captured through [the {{site.konnect_short_name}} Debugger](/manager/debugger/)
```

* Request logs stored in Debugger workflows

To use CMEK, you must

1. [Create a **symmetric encryption key** in AWS KMS.](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/create-keys.html)
1. Provide the **key ARN** to [{{site.konnect_short_name}}](https://cloud.konghq.com/global/organization/settings/encryption-keys/)

> ## Configure CMEK

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure CMEK in {{site.konnect_short_name}}
```
